README.md, before:

# QuiltView: a Crowd-Sourced Video Response System

## What is QuiltView?

QuiltView is a crowd-sourced video response system based on smart glasses such as [Google Glass](http://www.google.com/glass). Specifically, it leverages the ability of capturing first-person view-point video with effortless one-touch in such Glass devices. The extreme simplicity of video capture can be used to create a new near-real-time social network. In this network, users can pose brief queries to other users in a specific geographic area and receive prompt video responses. The richness of video content provides much detail and context to the person posing the query, while consuming little attention from those who respond. The QuiltView architecture incorporates result caching, geolocation and query similarity detection to shield users from being overwhelmed by a flood of queries. More detailed information can be found in [this paper](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~zhuoc/papers/quiltview_HotMobile2014.pdf)

## License

All source code, documentation, and related artifacts associated with the
QuiltView open source project are licensed under the [Apache License, Version
2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

A copy of this license is reproduced in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file, and the
licenses of dependencies and included code are mentioned in the
[NOTICE](NOTICE) file.

## System Components and Workflow

The system currently consists of three components. You can find the source code for each component accordingly:

1. `server` under `/quiltview-service` - This is the part you should run it on a global server. It comes with a web interface so you can post your queries there. The server will deliver queries to clients and receive video responses back. The server stores the videos (at least for some time) to serve as a cache to shortcuit future queries.

2. `client` under `/client` - This is the Android code you should run on a Google Glass. When the Glass receives a query, it will pop up and the user can simply reply with a short video with one touch. The video will be uploaded to Youtube and the Metadata about the video, including the Youtube link, will be stored in our QuiltView server. If the user does not reply within 10 seconds, the query will disappear.

3. `proxy` under `proxy_server` - This piece exists only because we cannot find a way to store a recorded video on Glass disk with customized application. So what we do now is to stream the frames from client to the proxy, store the video there, and upload it to Youtube from proxy.

## Tested Platforms
Currently we have only tested the source code with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64-bit.

## Setting Up Server

0. Go to the QuiltView root directory

    ```bash
    cd QUILTVIEW_ROOT
    ```

1. Install system libraries

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    sudo apt-get install python-pip mysql-server mysql-client libmysqlclient-dev python-dev python-gflags libblas-dev libatlas-dev liblapack-dev python-numpy python-scipy gfortran libevent-dev
    ```

2. Set up virtual environment
    
    ```bash
    sudo pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv --system-site-packages ENV
    source ENV/bin/activate
    ```

3. Install python libraries

    ```bash
    pip install -r PIP_LIB
    ```

    Now you can go to the server directory

    ```bash
    cd quiltview_service/quiltview/
    ```

4. Set up database (now you should have mysql installed and running)

    ```bash
    mysql -u root
    CREATE USER 'quiltview'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'quiltview2013';
    CREATE DATABASE quiltview;
    GRANT ALL ON *.* TO quiltview@localhost;
    FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
    ```

    To check if database is correctly created, do

    ```bash
    mysql -u quiltview -p
    show databases;
    ```

    Now sync database from Django to mysql

    ```bash
    ./manage.py syncdb
    ```

    In the syncing process, you probably will be asked to create a superuser for Django's auth system, just follow the instructions.

5. Configure Django

    Create folders for static files and media files

    ```bash
    mkdir STATIC_DIRS STATIC_ROOT MEDIA
    ```

    Download boostrap, unzip it, and put it under STATIC_DIRS. 

    We are using Bootstrap version 2. A link to download is at

    ```bash
    http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/assets/bootstrap.zip
    ```

    So you can probably do

    ```bash
    wget http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/assets/bootstrap.zip -P STATIC_DIRS/
    sudo apt-get install unzip
    unzip STATIC_DIRS/bootstrap.zip -d STATIC_DIRS/
    rm STATIC_DIRS/bootstrap.zip
    ```

    Now collect static files for Django

    ```bash
    ./manage.py collectstatic
    ```

    Edit parameters in ```quiltview/settings.py``` to set your server address correctly, including ```SITE_URL```, ```LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL```, ```LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL```

6. Get models for text similarity detection

    wiki_en_wordids.txt
    model.lda

7. Run server

    ```bash
    sudo ../../ENV/bin/python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:80
    ```

8. Sign in...

## Setting up client

1. Install Android SDK 4.4.2, including Glass Development Kit Preview. 

2. Import the project under `QUILTVIEW_ROOT/client`, change the quiltview server and proxy address in Const.java. Install it to the Glass. 

3. The client application can be activated by "Ok, Glass" -> "Start QuiltView".

## Setting up proxy

0. Go to the proxy directory

    ```bash
    cd QUILTVIEW_ROOT
    source ENV/bin/activate
    cd proxy_server
    ```
1. Set the configuration parameters in Const.py

2. If you want to use Youtube to store videos, you have to do the following steps. If your proxy and quiltview server are the same and you want to store the videos in this server (for demo purpose), then you don't need to do this.

    Register a project at Google Developer console to use the Google APIs of uploading video to Youtube. What you need is a JSON file with your credentials. Follow the instructions here:

    ```bash
    https://developers.google.com/youtube/registering_an_application
    ```

    After creating the project, download the json file and put it under ```proxy_server``` directory. It has to be named as ```client_secrets.json```.

3. Run proxy

    ```bash
    python proxy_server.py
    ```

    If you are uploading to Youtube, an OAuth page will probably pop up the first time you run it. Click okay and you will not be bothered again.

## Setting up virtual user

    See the Readme file inside ```virtual_glass``` directory.

https://code.google.com/p/google-glass-api/issues/detail?id=360

Commit message:

Update README about register a new account

README.md, after:

# QuiltView: a Crowd-Sourced Video Response System

## What is QuiltView?

QuiltView is a crowd-sourced video response system based on smart glasses such as [Google Glass](http://www.google.com/glass). Specifically, it leverages the ability of capturing first-person view-point video with effortless one-touch in such Glass devices. The extreme simplicity of video capture can be used to create a new near-real-time social network. In this network, users can pose brief queries to other users in a specific geographic area and receive prompt video responses. The richness of video content provides much detail and context to the person posing the query, while consuming little attention from those who respond. The QuiltView architecture incorporates result caching, geolocation and query similarity detection to shield users from being overwhelmed by a flood of queries. More detailed information can be found in [this paper](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~zhuoc/papers/quiltview_HotMobile2014.pdf)

## License

All source code, documentation, and related artifacts associated with the
QuiltView open source project are licensed under the [Apache License, Version
2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

A copy of this license is reproduced in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file, and the
licenses of dependencies and included code are mentioned in the
[NOTICE](NOTICE) file.

## System Components and Workflow

The system currently consists of three components. You can find the source code for each component accordingly:

1. `server` under `/quiltview-service` - This is the part you should run it on a global server. It comes with a web interface so you can post your queries there. The server will deliver queries to clients and receive video responses back. The server stores the videos (at least for some time) to serve as a cache to shortcuit future queries.

2. `client` under `/client` - This is the Android code you should run on a Google Glass. When the Glass receives a query, it will pop up and the user can simply reply with a short video with one touch. The video will be uploaded to Youtube and the Metadata about the video, including the Youtube link, will be stored in our QuiltView server. If the user does not reply within 10 seconds, the query will disappear.

3. `proxy` under `proxy_server` - This piece exists only because we cannot find a way to store a recorded video on Glass disk with customized application. So what we do now is to stream the frames from client to the proxy, store the video there, and upload it to Youtube from proxy.

## Tested Platforms
Currently we have only tested the source code with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64-bit.

## Setting Up Server

0. Go to the QuiltView root directory

    ```bash
    cd QUILTVIEW_ROOT
    ```

1. Install system libraries

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    sudo apt-get install python-pip mysql-server mysql-client libmysqlclient-dev python-dev python-gflags libblas-dev libatlas-dev liblapack-dev python-numpy python-scipy gfortran libevent-dev
    ```

2. Set up virtual environment
    
    ```bash
    sudo pip install virtualenv
    virtualenv --system-site-packages ENV
    source ENV/bin/activate
    ```

3. Install python libraries

    ```bash
    pip install -r PIP_LIB
    ```

    Now you can go to the server directory

    ```bash
    cd quiltview_service/quiltview/
    ```

4. Set up database (now you should have mysql installed and running)

    ```bash
    mysql -u root
    CREATE USER 'quiltview'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'quiltview2013';
    CREATE DATABASE quiltview;
    GRANT ALL ON *.* TO quiltview@localhost;
    FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
    ```

    To check if database is correctly created, do

    ```bash
    mysql -u quiltview -p
    show databases;
    ```

    Now sync database from Django to mysql

    ```bash
    ./manage.py syncdb
    ```

    In the syncing process, you probably will be asked to create a superuser for Django's auth system, just follow the instructions.

5. Configure Django

    Create folders for static files and media files

    ```bash
    mkdir STATIC_DIRS STATIC_ROOT MEDIA
    ```

    Download boostrap, unzip it, and put it under STATIC_DIRS. 

    We are using Bootstrap version 2. A link to download is at

    ```bash
    http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/assets/bootstrap.zip
    ```

    So you can probably do

    ```bash
    wget http://getbootstrap.com/2.3.2/assets/bootstrap.zip -P STATIC_DIRS/
    sudo apt-get install unzip
    unzip STATIC_DIRS/bootstrap.zip -d STATIC_DIRS/
    rm STATIC_DIRS/bootstrap.zip
    ```

    Now collect static files for Django

    ```bash
    ./manage.py collectstatic
    ```

    Edit parameters in ```quiltview/settings.py``` to set your server address correctly, including ```SITE_URL```, ```LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL```, ```LOGOUT_REDIRECT_URL```

6. Get models for text similarity detection

    wiki_en_wordids.txt
    model.lda

7. Run server

    ```bash
    sudo ../../ENV/bin/python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:80
    ```

8. Register the account you want to use to post a query. 

    Got to ```http://<hostname>/admin```

    You have to login with the superuser name and password for your Django project. You probably have done this when you first did ```syncdb```. If you haven't, you can create one through ```./manage.py createsuperuser --username=<username> --email=<email>```

    Go to Users, then Add. The most important field is the Google Account, which you will use to login QuiltView and post queries.

## Setting up client

1. Install Android SDK 4.4.2, including Glass Development Kit Preview. 

2. Import the project under `QUILTVIEW_ROOT/client`, change the quiltview server and proxy address in Const.java. Install it to the Glass. 

3. The client application can be activated by "Ok, Glass" -> "Start QuiltView".

## Setting up proxy

0. Go to the proxy directory

    ```bash
    cd QUILTVIEW_ROOT
    source ENV/bin/activate
    cd proxy_server
    ```

1. Install system libraries

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install libopencv-dev python-opencv
    ```

1. Set the configuration parameters in Const.py. If your QuiltView server and proxy are on the same machine, set ```QUILTVIEW\_URL``` to ```http://127.0.0.1```.

2. If you want to use Youtube to store videos, you have to do the following steps. If your proxy and quiltview server are the same and you want to store the videos in this server (for demo purpose), then you don't need to do this.

    Register a project at Google Developer console to use the Google APIs of uploading video to Youtube. What you need is a JSON file with your credentials. Follow the instructions here:

    ```bash
    https://developers.google.com/youtube/registering_an_application
    ```

    After creating the project, download the json file and put it under ```proxy_server``` directory. It has to be named as ```client_secrets.json```.

3. Run proxy

    ```bash
    python proxy_server.py
    ```

    If you are uploading to Youtube, an OAuth page will probably pop up the first time you run it. Click okay and you will not be bothered again.

## Setting up virtual user

    See the Readme file inside ```virtual_glass``` directory.

https://code.google.com/p/google-glass-api/issues/detail?id=360
